hey it's Lee Hayward here and I just got
an email from one of my personal
coaching students and basically she was
complaining that you know she's injured
her knee while training and she wants to
know how she can work around her knee
injury and this is quite common I mean
I've dealt with this myself on occasion
you know generally when people have
problems you know it's usually the knees
or it's the elbows or the shoulders I
mean though those are the joints that
really cause the most problems but
anyway she wanted to know some tips and
suggestions that you could use for
working around her knee injury so what I
did is I put together a little video
clip here and just going to cover some
simple exercises that you can do and it
allow you to get a good solid leg
workout but without placing excess
strain on the knee joint the first
exercise that I like to do are leg
extensions I'll do these with light
weights and high reps for example I'll
use about 50 pounds on the weight stack
and shoot for 50 reps per set high rep
leg extensions are very therapeutic on
the knee joints because they circulate
blood throughout the knees and they help
to release your body's natural joint
lubricant which is called solano Viall
fluid this is secreted from the inner
membrane of your joints to help
lubricate your joints during activity
it's just another reason that you should
always perform a light high rep warm-up
prior to moving on to heavy weight
lifting
as you keep going throughout the set
you'll find that your quad muscles are
burned like crazy
due to the lactic acid buildup but keep
going and work through the burn because
the lactic acid is actually good for
helping to speed up recovery and
recuperate from a knee injury
the next exercise that I like to move on
to is bodyweight squats these are great
for working the legs in a natural plane
of movement you're not restricted or
held in place like when doing machine
exercises squats work all the major
muscles of the legs from the quads
hamstrings hips and glutes and because
we're using just bodyweight here you'll
there not be a lot of stress and strain
on the knee joint when you perform these
you know do high reps and strive to do
about a hundred total body weight squats
over the course of your workout you can
break this up into like you know four
sets of 25 reps or five sets of twenty
or however you like but just you know
strive to do about a hundred total reps
over the course of your workout the last
exercise is leg presses for working
around a knee injury you should do your
leg presses with your feet placed high
and wide on the footplate this will take
the stress off the knees and place more
of the emphasis on the hamstrings hips
and glutes only bring your legs down
until your knees are about ninety degree
angles then press the weight back up
doing your leg presses in this way will
allow you to handle fairly heavy weight
and you'll be good be able to do it
comfortably and work around your knee
injuries without a lot of pain or
discomfort for more training and
nutrition tips make sure to visit my
website at WWE
well you're there make sure to sign up
for my free bodybuilding and fitness
tips newsletter